after a severe head injury in 2007 I began spending significant time in second life as 
a way of staying mentally active while recouperating in a confined manner. I decided to "locate"
my studio in second life for a year as a method of inquiry into that environment and as a
means of exploring the process of building in their 3D environment and using their scripting language.
Part of second life culture is the availability of classes. In these classes varoious levels of building and 
scrpting were taught. Some of the classes pretty much included all bthe parts like a puzzle and the participants
were just expected to put it together and load a script into part of it to make it work. Some of the classes 
were more complex and actually would take you through the process of writing the script yourself. 

Many of the scripts in my library were received from "feebie" boxes, and some are part of classes that I took.
My intention here is to sort out the materials I have saved on my avatar there literally before its too late.

My studio space for a year was located in a building which I purchased from an in world designer 
named "Ebisuya" from japan. Most of my files and notes at tha time are called "ebisuya" since I
tended to refer to the second life studio as "the ebisuya".

At the same time that I was exploring Second Life in its relatively fresh and booming days I was listening to
a audio recording of the book "Snowcrash" by Neal Stephenson. There is a strong relationship between the 
conceptual background of sl and Stephensons work. Realistically it is very based on "The Sims" with an almost
identical level of abstraction and sense of proportion. Overall the textural sensation is one of inhabiting a 
sort of twelve inch doll world, in a sort of akward jerky motion you scoot around and fly and interact with objects,
many of which are scripted so that you can either "drive" or "fly" them around.

One of my favorite things is a scripted pegasus which I sometimes fly around.

Overall some of the most fun I had hanging out was volunteering at the 2008 burningman themed area
where we were all allowed to build camps and wander around. 

One of my initial attractions to the "game" environment was the presence of many of the "Gnu"
crowd. any of the free textures and sounds and scripts were shared around
with "Gnu" to indicate the freely shared or open statud of the media file. As I began to 
build a new direction of inquiry for myself as the "Open Source Artist" I began to look 
at second life as a potential creative marketplace for creating some unique learning experiences 
located in second life. After much inquiry I realized that the restrictions of the medium were 
severe because even with open sharing essentially the environment is a silo. Your work is only 
meaningful in an environment where compensation and ownership are not very clear or very even handed.



originally I had heard about second life in the context of assisted living. Eventually I felt that applications
that tied the virtual environment in with the real world could be afruitful arena, likely however 
only in "The Grid", which was the open source version of the entire world construct that companies like IBM 
 worked with second life to develop. At frist it seemed like they might be building their own grid, their 
 own contained environment for meetings and tutorials and such and perhaps they did. Now that time has 
 passed I wonder if they use it at all.
 
 My first scripting inquiry was wanting to make a school of fish in a koi pond. This seemingly simple
  pursuit kept me going for around the first six months. I spent a lot of time looking at shops that have fish
   and also learning how to sculpt and texture and animate water. Sometimes in the ebisuya it was fish everywhere.
   
   
   The first steps to building and scripting mostly involved poseballs and light switches. Poseballs allow 
   your avatar character to sit. Of course I mean sitting in the sense that several sitting poses are available
   and one of the intersting things about second life is this menu of expressive movements and poses that
   are fairly standardized and available for your character.
   
   after that I learned how to create a door locking system in order to create some physical privacy for doing
   things like changing my avatars clothes inside the tudio and other sorts of akwards experiments. Around the studio I experimented
   with plants and foliage and water while I figured out my pond skills.
   
   almost at the same time that I figured out how to do the swarm fish with a particle system I became 
    fascinated with the rezzing tools in the scripted environment. These tools are used to generate complex objects 
    like hair and jewelry by repeatedly creating specific objects in a slightly altered physical path.
    
    
    One of the things I was able to do in second life was spend time hanging out with my godson who lives at the
    other end of california while he was doing his calculus homework. He had experience crafting and making items in WOW
    so he would coach me on my 3D building skills while I would go over his calc homework with him some.
    Basically we were using instant messaging and occasionally goofing off and teleporting around for fun. It was really 
    helpful in my recovery from my head injury since an eye injury was part of the situation and t really helped me stay 
    mentally active even while keeping my head upright and letting my eye heal.
    
    By the time the year was over I was ready to end the experiment for numbers of reasons nt worth detailing.
    The environment suffered constantly from lag and unpredictability as well as the blunderings of
     people learning the controls, many more "noob" one time visits that steady moving regulars. Probably 
     that is one f the reasons that the second life burningman scene was actually really fun was that 
     all of the people hanging out there could already move around and build and use the environment with 
     some grace.
     
     My intention here is to go through the scripts and store them with related class images and directions that
      might even make them useful to someone who enjoys the environment, or even better for transposition to the grid.
