Code:

Opensource switchable-mode pose-ball script (version 4.3)
By CrystalShard Foo     //          Script-Foo!

NOTE: Please dont contact me with problems. This is a free, open script. If you need help, just hand it to a geek you know and ask for assistance.

Index:
1.The Basic, Simple Way.
2.The advanced way
3.Using link messages
4.Conclusion

HOW TO USE THIS SCRIPT
----------------------------

1)The Basic, Simple Way:
Just drop the script "poseball 4" into a poseball. Then, drop a pose inside (NOT a gesture!!), and you're done.
The poseball with appear or disappear when clicked.

You do NOT need to put ANYTHING else in the ball, other then the single Poseball script and the animation.

What is the Click Broadcaster script for, then? Read part 3 to find out...

2)The advanced way:
The notecard that comes with the poseball (Pose ball - CONFIGURATION) gives you access to afew more intresting functions:

- You can change the offset of the sit position using X,Y,Z coordinates. (that is, changing where you will be positioned when you sit.)
- You can change the floating text title above the ball.
- You can change the name of the "Sit Here" button when right-clicking on the ball.
- You can decide if you want to use a click to make the ball hide and show, or use the commands "hide" and "show" in chat text.

The way for doing this is pretty straight forward: Just open the notecard and change the values after each name.

If "voice" is set to Yes,  a listener will be activated and the ball will show or hide when the command "show" or "hide" is given.
If "voice" is set to No, any opened listener will be shut down, and the ball will wait to be clicked instead.

When changing "offset", make sure to keep the < and > signs when changing the numbers. This function will fail if you do not.

3)Using link_messages
Link messages are very useful when you want to put a whole bunch of pose balls in a single linked set object. For example, a chair or a bed with more then one poseball. This way you can turn the balls on and off by a single click anywhere on the object, and without using the evil Voice command option. Remember: Every ball that listens for voice commands = lag. This is why the clicking option is the default.

How to do it: Just link your poseballs with the furniture piece as you always do. Then, once done, put the click-broadcaster script in the ROOT PRIM of the furniture. It will handle the rest.

You do NOT NEED to put any other copy of the click broadcaster anywhere else. This includes the poseballs.

Technical bits:
This poseball script always listens for incoming link messages. These will make the ball show or hide regardless of the setting of using Voice commands or not.

The "integer" value (num) must be 99.
The "string" value (str) can be either "show" to show, or "hide" to hide.

Always put the script that senses for the click and transmit the hide/show link_message in the ROOT PRIM of the linked set.

That should do it. =)

4. Conclusion
And that should sum it up. Hope you find this little script useful. Again, please dont IM me for support on this - i'm flooded with messages allready. Just hand this script and manual to a geek friend who will surely manage to figure it out.

Happy posing!

- CrystalShard Foo
